GAME SCRIPT FOR THE SHIT THE CHARACTERS SAY
they're all scarecrows, they're all wistful for the things they cannot do, they all know the player character, who has been to visit them repeatedly

[[TITLE IDEAS]]
    One Ticket to the Lonely Soul Scarecrow Show

[[RANTS, GENERALLY SPEAKING]]
    the maze is not a good place for the scarecrows to be, and I want this to be communicated as implicitly as possible
    the priority here is to convey a feeling for the space, not to make a carefully-directed critique of society (though that will probably happen naturally)

    1. what hope is there in struggling against an overwhelming power?
        they're making me do things i don't like, but i don't have any other options
        the deck is stacked against us, and the rules change as soon as they can be construed to help us
        this isn't a storybook or fairytale
        we have no path forward, we have no idea what to do
    2. what's the difference between being rooted and being trapped?
        they say we have free will, but it's not like we can get down off of these wooden poles
        they say we have everything we need, and that there's nothing for us out there, so what's the harm in letting us go look?
    3. there's nothing better than sharing a meal with friends and family
        it can be a crucial break from the fast-paced modern world
        life can be a struggle, but it's impossible to struggle all the time
    4. are we only meant to do the things we're good at?
        why should we seek to optimize our qualities?
        people should have autonomy to do what interests them
        there's nothing wrong with doing what you're good at either
        the pressure to optimize is artificial and dehumanizing
    5. what happens to us after we're no longer here?
        it's scary
        even if someone is no longer here, they're only truly gone after they've been forgotten
        this doesn't keep loss from hurting, it only makes it more bearable
    6. manipulative breakdown - 'you're being selfish for not depending on me'
        i'm not like the others - only i understand you
        i'm not doing this for me, i'm doing it for you - you need me
        you should be grateful - if anything, you're being selfish for not opening up to me
        don't i have a right to know what's going on? don't i deserve to know how you're feeling? you owe me that
    7. why didn't my hard work pay off in the end? what was the point?
        it's so discouraging
        i could have saved myself a world of hurt by simply not trying
        how do i keep going after this?
    8. know any good jokes?
        things may not always be good, but we've always got each other
        spreading joy is the best way to make the most of a bad situation
    9. do you even know what they do to us here?
        why do you think we can "talk"? how do you think we scare crows away?
        you walk through here all the time, for a good time, but you never ask if we're okay
        are you trying to keep your head in the sand?
        don't kid yourself - this is a zoo, and we're stuck in the cages
        the wizard of oz is damaging anti-scrow propaganda
    10. are you willing to set aside your privilege to help us?
        like, i'm glad you can hear us, but that doesn't improve our situation
        you have no incentive to act, but will you anyway?
        are we your friends or your entertainment?
        you're just like everybody else
    11. more sinister self-insert
        i interrupt and talk over another scrow as i inhabit its mind, otherwise pretty similar to the original idea
    12. if i have the option to leave, why would i stay?
        do i have a responsibility to fix the problems here?
        do i have a responsibility for my friends and family who cannot leave? who will not leave?
    13. it's our fault things are like this, not our oppressors
        our personal responsibility must outweigh the effects of the system
        if we do better, our situation will improve, it has to

[[RANTS, SPECIFICALLY SPEAKING]]
    rough drafts of full rants, these will eventually be developed into full cinematic-style jawns, so any notes on that can go underneath the rant itself

    2. Man, what I would give to be able to travel. I don't even know where I'd go. The only things I hear about the world come from visitors like yourself. "They" just tell us that we have everything we need here, that we can set down roots. That there's nothing for us out there. Well, if that's the truth, why don't "they" let us go look? I try to peek through the corn all the time, to see if I can spot anything out there, anything at all. But there's nothing. Just dirt and fog. Are we really setting down roots? Did I have a choice? Hm...
        (notes: needs a little bulking up, i think. dialogue grows uncertain by the end, and kind of trails off. video is mostly classic travel stuff. a cool segment might be zooming the camera through the rows of corn to view a magnificent structure far away in the distance)
    3. There’s nothing better than a filling meal in the company of your family, whoever they might be. The dinner table a twisting landscape of shapes, textures, and colors, above which participants laugh and smile with one another. No two of these landscapes look the same, the map of each becoming a shared secret, a cherished memory for days, weeks, years to come. A hidden place in which to escape the blistering speed of daily life, inhabited only by yourself and those you hold dear. It is impossible to overstate how important these experiences are. Neglecting this kind of connection can wither our hearts and darken our hearts. I hope that you and I are able to share a meal like this someday. In the meantime, I hope you are able to enjoy many such feasts.
        (notes: video clips should be food/dinner table related, interspersed with some darker, non-standard food fare. the text as it stands is not quite as wistful as i'd like it to be)
    4. I think there’s an overemphasis placed on people meeting their full potential. The idea that a person should do what they’re best at, or what will make them the most money, or even what will make them happiest, is creating this pressure to meet an artificial standard that they have no hope of reaching. No one knows how high they can go, or how far something will take them, until they try it. This goes for things within the wheelhouse as well as without. The star quarterback has no guarantee that they’ll play in the NFL. The gifted young poet has no guarantee that they’ll ever get published. Does this mean what they’re doing is a waste of time, worth nothing to them? Of course not. They’re growing, learning, expressing themselves, and to force them off this path into a life where their value can be more efficiently extracted is just gross. It’s gross. People should be able to do whatever they want, whether or not it’s “good”, or “makes money”, both completely arbitrary measures of value that only have meaning from the context that our society has given them.
        (notes: drop the real-world examples. it needs a dash of bitterness. show clips of students graduating, then people working identical, mindless jobs, robots, and so on)
    6. What’s the matter? I’m offering to help you with your problems. You should be grateful that you have someone like me who understands you. I’m not like the others. I won’t laugh at you, or talk about you behind your back. I’ll listen and think and care for you. You need me. You always have, and you always will. It’s not like I do this because I get something out of it. I do it because I’m a good person, and it’s the right thing to do. If anything, you’re being selfish for not opening up to me. After everything we’ve shared between us, don’t you think I have right to know what’s going on? Don’t I deserve to know how you’re feeling? I think I do. I’ve earned that much.
        (notes: the text is pretty good. doesn't read as very desperate, but that might be something that will come through with voice. not sure if video will work as well with this one, but maybe cage and bondage iconography would be good. this might also serve as a good demonstration of the world-altering effects that the scrows have - they could be talking about how they've listened to the PC for days and days, and have the sun whip through several day and night cycles in quick succession, or maybe have ghostly hands reach out and clutch at the player. dunno yet)
    9. you're kidding, right? what do you think you're doing here? what do you think we're doing here? does that seriously never cross your mind? you walk through here all the time, chatting with us, laughing as you try to 'escape the maze'. don't kid yourself. this isn't a maze, it's a zoo, and you're getting a rush from the illusion that you've been locked inside with the animals. You buy your ticket, you get your kicks, then you get to leave. but we never do. We'll do this over and over and over again until the field is barren and the crows have nothing left to steal. And after all this, you think "they're" going to take care of us? we'll be reduced to firewood, and that'll be that. "they" don't give a shit about us, and i guess you don't either. anyway, enjoy trying to 'escape the maze', and don't talk to me anymore.
        (notes: this feels pretty good. might want to tone the antagonism down a little bit, but i think i got it right. caged animal imagery, chopping wood, dead fields. this scrow definitely needs to be near the end - lots of reliance on ideas that need to be established elsewhere)

[[BARKS]]
    "I think I'm still somewhere near the entrance..."
    "I'm near the eastern wall right now"
    "I think I'm close to the northern edge of the maze"
    "This is the western wall, I think"
    "Looks like I'm getting to close to the exit now"
    "I'm near the center of the maze at this point"
    (specific barks for each scarecrow, letting the player know they're in the room or nearby, and whether the dialogue has been exhausted or not)

[[STOCK VIDEO RESOURCES]]
    Pexels - https://www.pexels.com/videos
    Pixabay - https://pixabay.com/videos/
    You could probably also use images from Smithsonian Open Access with a bit of editing
