GAME SCRIPT FOR THE SHIT THE CHARACTERS SAY
they're all scarecrows, they're all wistful for the things they cannot do, they all know the player character, who has been to visit them repeatedly

[[TITLE IDEAS]]
    One Ticket to the Lonely Soul Scarecrow Show

[[RANTS, GENERALLY SPEAKING]]
    the maze is not a good place for the scarecrows to be, and I want this to be communicated as implicitly as possible
    the priority here is to convey a feeling for the space, not to make a carefully-directed critique of society (though that will probably happen naturally)

    1. what hope is there in struggling against an overwhelming power?
        they're making me do things i don't like, but i don't have any other options
        the deck is stacked against us, and the rules change as soon as they can be construed to help us
        this isn't a storybook or fairytale
        we have no path forward, we have no idea what to do
    2. what's the difference between being rooted and being trapped?
        they say we have free will, but it's not like we can get down off of these wooden poles
        they say we have everything we need, and that there's nothing for us out there, so what's the harm in letting us go look?
    3. there's nothing better than sharing a meal with friends and family
        it can be a crucial break from the fast-paced modern world
        life can be a struggle, but it's impossible to struggle all the time
    4. are we only meant to do the things we're good at?
        why should we seek to optimize our qualities?
        people should have autonomy to do what interests them
        there's nothing wrong with doing what you're good at either
        the pressure to optimize is artificial and dehumanizing
    5. what happens to us after we're no longer here?
        it's scary
        even if someone is no longer here, they're only truly gone after they've been forgotten
        this doesn't keep loss from hurting, it only makes it more bearable
    6. manipulative breakdown - 'you're being selfish for not depending on me'
        i'm not like the others - only i understand you
        i'm not doing this for me, i'm doing it for you - you need me
        you should be grateful - if anything, you're being selfish for not opening up to me
        don't i have a right to know what's going on? don't i deserve to know how you're feeling? you owe me that
    7. why didn't my hard work pay off in the end? what was the point?
        it's so discouraging
        i could have saved myself a world of hurt by simply not trying
        how do i keep going after this?
    8. know any good jokes?
        things may not always be good, but we've always got each other
        spreading joy is the best way to make the most of a bad situation
    9. do you even know what they do to us here?
        why do you think we can "talk"? how do you think we scare crows away?
        you walk through here all the time, for a good time, but you never ask if we're okay
        are you trying to keep your head in the sand?
        don't kid yourself - this is a zoo, and we're stuck in the cages
        the wizard of oz is damaging anti-scrow propaganda
    10. are you willing to set aside your privilege to help us?
        like, i'm glad you can hear us, but that doesn't improve our situation
        you have no incentive to act, but will you anyway?
        are we your friends or your entertainment?
        you're just like everybody else
    11. more sinister self-insert
        i interrupt and talk over another scrow as i inhabit its mind, otherwise pretty similar to the original idea
    12. if i have the option to leave, why would i stay?
        do i have a responsibility to fix the problems here?
        do i have a responsibility for my friends and family who cannot leave? who will not leave?
    13. it's our fault things are like this, not our oppressors
        our personal responsibility must outweigh the effects of the system
        if we do better, our situation will improve, it has to
    14. the end is nigh
        the crows are coming, and will consume everything
        the sun will be blotted out behind their thousands of feathered wings

[[RANTS, SPECIFICALLY SPEAKING]]
    rough drafts of full rants, these will eventually be developed into full cinematic-style jawns, so any notes on that can go underneath the rant itself

    2. Ah, come on! I'm relying on you! Your stories let me live vicariously through you. I mean, the only things I hear about the world come from visitors like yourself. "They" just tell us that we have everything we need here, that there's nothing for us out there. That we can set down roots here and not have to worry. But I can't help feeling that if that's really the truth, then why don't "they" let us go look? I dream of glittering cities, delicious food, and a sea of smiling faces. I dream of complexity, of challenge, of satisfaction. I try to peek through the corn all the time, to see if I can spot anything out there, anything at all. But there's nothing. Just dirt and fog. Did I really mean to set down roots here? Did I really have a choice? I don't know...
        (notes: needs a little bulking up, i think. dialogue grows uncertain by the end, and kind of trails off. video is mostly classic travel stuff. a cool segment might be zooming the camera through the rows of corn to view a magnificent structure far away in the distance - 1:03)
    3. Mmm...wonderful! Wonderful. There’s nothing better than a...filling meal in the company of your family, whoever they might be. That magical dinner table, a twisting landscape of shapes, textures, and colors, above which participants laugh and smile with one another. No two of these landscapes look the same, the map of each becoming a shared secret, a cherished memory for years to come. A hidden place in which to escape the blistering speed of daily life, inhabited only by yourself and those you hold dear. It is impossible to overstate how important these experiences are. Neglecting this kind of connection can wither and darken our hearts. I truly hope that you and I are able to share a meal like this someday. That would be delectable.
        (notes: video clips should be food/dinner table related, interspersed with some darker, non-standard food fare. the text as it stands is not quite as wistful as i'd like it to be - 1:30)
    4. Yeah, me neither. You know...between you and me, I don't really like scaring crows. I think they're really cool, actually. They use tools, and form social groups. In a lot of ways, they're more capable than scarecrows. But even so, I feel this weird pressure to keep scaring them. I guess it's because I'm "supposed" to? Just because I was made a scarecrow? It's...tough for me to wrap my head around. It's like, why should my ability take priority over my passion? Isn't that kinda backwards? Is it not worth doing if I'm not maximizing my potential? Phew...sorry. I get really fired up about this because I'm afraid that I'm wrong, and that scarecrows shouldn't aspire to more than scaring crows. But...it's nice to know someone else feels the same way, at least. Thanks a lot for letting me vent like this. I appreciate it.
        (notes: it still needs a dash of bitterness, maybe. clips of students graduating, then people working identical, mindless jobs, robots, and so on - 1:22)
    6. Oh, come on, that can't be true. What’s the matter? I’m just offering to help you with your problems. You should be grateful that you have someone like me. I’m not like the others. I understand you. I won’t laugh at you, or talk about you behind your back. I’ll listen and think and care for you. You need me. It’s not like I do this because I get anything out of it. I do it because I’m a good person, and it’s the right thing to do. If anything, you’re being selfish for not opening up to me. After everything we’ve shared between us, don’t you think I have right to know what’s going on with you? Don’t I deserve to know how you’re feeling? I think I do. I think I've earned that much. But go ahead, do whatever you want.
        (notes: the text is pretty good. doesn't read as very desperate, but that might be something that will come through with voice. not sure if video will work as well with this one, but maybe cage and bondage iconography would be good. this might also serve as a good demonstration of the world-altering effects that the scrows have - they could be talking about how they've listened to the PC for days and days, and have the sun whip through several day and night cycles in quick succession, or maybe have ghostly hands reach out and clutch at the player. dunno yet - 0:53)
    7. You know, it's kind of stupid. I put so much into this. I spent hours and days dreaming it up, then weeks and months getting it all together. Just over a year, and for what? For a smoking pile of junk. I should have known it wasn't going to work and just saved myself the disappointment...so stupid. I don't even know why I care so much. It's not like I'm running out of time, I can just start again. But why should I? If it's just not going to work again, what's the point? And then if I don't try again, what do I even do now? How am I supposed to keep going from one failure to the next? I can't take it...sorry, I know I shouldn't be looking at this so negatively. It just sucks. Anyway, thanks for sticking around.
        (notes: the conceit for this is that there's some sort of machine (or maybe a ritual/spell?) that the scrow starts up for the first time when you talk to them. It doesn't work, which may lead to this dialogue. A spell can be purely mental, but if it's a machine, the scrow will need some ambulatory limbs. This being the case, maybe the spell is the way to go after all, haha)
    8. Ha ha ha! Wow, that's great! I'm stealing that one. Hoo boy, thank you. Things have been tense around here, as perhaps you could tell. I've been trying my best to smile through it with a joke and a laugh, but it's not that easy sometimes. I really appreciate that you and I could share a small moment of levity like that. We don't get to connect like this with many people, so when we do, it's kind of important, you know? And I think the best way to make and maintain those connections is with a smile. Sadly, it can be a bit of a risk sometimes. Some people just want you to behave how they expect you to, or will try to take advantage of you when you meet them with kindness. That's hard. But when you get a smile back, when someone meets you on your level, that can make the risk worth it. Anyway, I've chewed your ear off for long enough. Thanks for spending some time with me.
        (notes: this seems tonally inconsistent with the later stuff. i think i already went through this, though, that it's almost better for this stuff to be tonally inconsistent. maybe, then, the stuff at the end is too strong? i think it's okay, but i'm definitely doing the rodney dangerfield collar tug right now - 1:13)
    9. you're kidding, right? what do you think you're doing here? what do you think we're doing here? does that seriously never cross your mind? damn it. you walk through here all the time, chatting with us, laughing as you try to 'escape the maze'. don't kid yourself. we're not your friends, we're your entertainment. this isn't a maze, it's a zoo, and you're getting a rush from the illusion that you've been locked inside with the animals. fuck that. You buy your ticket, you get your kicks, then you get to leave. but we never do. We'll do this over and over and over again until the field is barren and the crows have nothing left to take. And after all this, after you and every other tourist stops coming through, you think the people who sold you that ticket are going to take care of us? we'll be tossed in a heap, left to rot, and that'll be that. "they" don't give a shit about us, and neither do you. anyway, enjoy trying to 'escape the maze', and don't talk to me anymore.
        (notes: this feels pretty good. might want to tone the antagonism down a little bit, but i think i got it right. caged animal imagery, chopping wood, dead fields. this scrow definitely needs to be near the end - lots of reliance on ideas that need to be established elsewhere - 1:01 - i think i can salvage some of speech #10 to add in here)
    10. Look, it's nice that you're so quick to say that, but I need you to understand the gravity of what you're saying. You would be sticking your neck out for a group that has no rights, no trust, and no respect. It's a big deal. You get to leave this place and go back to whatever you were doing before. We can't do that. I don't mean to be so untrusting, but we've had people like you support us before. They would tell us how they felt we should be free, and that keeping us here was an injustice, and how they respected us. And they all disappeared. Only we stayed behind. They had no incentive to act, so they didn't. So it's going to take me a little bit to believe that you're not like them. The question I pose to people now is this: are we your friends or your entertainment? Think on that and get back to me, okay?
        (notes: not sure if this is going too deep, too real. i'm wary of treading into kinda-shitty-for-white-guys-to-write territory. will i have to go back through all the others and make sure the tone is consistent? i should, i guess - that's what makes writing good, but...geez, i dunno)
    12. But why should I stay? Life here is...difficult. If I have the chance to have a better life somewhere else, shouldn't I take it? Do I have a duty to the other scarecrows to stay and help improve our lives here? I'll be honest, I don't think there's much of a chance of that. Do I suffer then, in solidarity? Can I use this knowledge to help everyone escape? What about those who don't want to go? What about the scarecrows they bring in to replace us? I don't want to suffer, and I have a lot of control over that. I don't want others to suffer either, but I don't have any control over that. I just...don't know what to do. But I trust you, you've always been straight up with me. I'll stick around for now.
        (notes: this scrow's got a jetpack on, and asks whether the PC thinks they should stay or go. If the player says they should go, the scrow fires up the jetpack and takes off. Otherwise, we get this monologue. maybe, if the scrow leaves, it should be replaced by another scrow after a certain amount of time or distance - 0:58)

[[FULL CHARACTER DIALOGUE]]
    [[INTRO SCROW (0): this scrow has been the greeter for several hundred years. It is tired, it is bored, and it is good (but not perfect) at hiding the bitterness in its voice.]]
        Hello, and welcome to the maze.
        I...recognize you. You've been here before.
        You pretty much know the drill by now.
        I'll spare you the spiel and let you be on your way.
        Unless I'm mistaking you for someone else?
        No, no, I don't think so. Apologies.
        Please, enjoy the maze.
        And remember...we are at your service.
    
    [[TRAVEL SCROW (2): this scrow is always thinking about what the rest of the world is like. The stories of mazegoers clash with the doctrine of the scrowlords, and this bother this scrow. It is uncertain whether it is really making its own decisions.]]
        Oh, good, it's you!
        I was just thinking about the story you told me last time you came through.
        The world beyond the maze sounds like such a fascinating place.
        I wish I could visit, just once.
        But...that's just not possible.
        Anyway, what about you?
        Have you been anywhere new recently?
        [[YES]]
            Wow, that sounds incredible!
            You're quite lucky, you know, to be able to have such wonderful experiences.
            Thanks for sharing with me.
            See you around!
        [[NO]]
            see rant above

    [[FEAST SCROW (3): this scrow is lethargic, hedonistic. a number of crows are perched on its head and shoulders, pecking away at it. it is unclear whether it regards the player as a guest or a meal.]]
        I thought I heard something...thrashing about out there.
        But I didn't...expect it to be you.
        It is always...such a treat to have you visit.
        You look as delicious as ever.
        Don't be shy now, please, come closer.
        Tell me...have you been eating well?
        [[YES]]
            see rant above
        [[NO]]
            Oh...oh no...
            I am sorry...to hear that.
            Good food is the key...to a good life.
            I pray your next feast finds you soon.
    
    [[EEYORE SCROW (4): this scrow is somewhat morose, flat, and disinterested. there is an air of wistful sorrow about it. it doesn't care for scaring crows, but doesn't feel as though it has a choice in the matter, as it was made to scare crows.]]
        Oh. Hello.
        Thanks for coming to visit, it's always nice to see you.
        Things have been kind of quiet recently.
        But I guess that shouldn't be too surprising.
        I mean, we were built to scare things away, right?
        Hmm...
        Do you think we have an obligation to do the things we're good at?
        [[YES]]
            Oh...you think so?
            I'm not sure, but...well, you may be right.
            Either way, thanks for coming to see me.
            It's nice to talk to someone.
        [[NO]]
            see rant above

    [[MANIPULATIVE SCROW (6): this scrow is soothing, interested, and interrogatory. it feeds on the feeling that others rely on it, whether it knows this or not. it will get defensive and testy if the player decides not to disclose anything.]]
        Oh, hey! How are you doing?
        I remember last time you were having a bit of trouble.
        I hope my advice helped.
        Have things been going okay?
        You know you can tell me anything.
        Only if you want to! I just want to help.
        So? Is there anything bothering you?
        [[YES]]
            Oh, of course, I can see it in your eyes.
            Go on then, tell me all about it.
            I'll listen for as long as you need.
        [[NO]]
            see rant above

    [[JOKER SCROW (8): this scrow is in a good mood, noticeably more so than the others. his disposition is bright, though beneath the facade is a deep fatigue and sorrow. If this comes through, amazing, but it doesn't have to.]]
        Oh ho ho! Just the person I was hoping to see today!
        Just yesterday, I came up with a real gut-buster.
        Okay, here we go: why don't scarecrows need to eat?
        . . .
        Because we're already stuffed!
        Ha ha ha ha!
        What about you? Got any good jokes for me?
        [[YES]]
            see rant above
        [[NO]]
            Ah well, no problem!
            It's hard to be as naturally funny as I am, after all.
            Ha ha ha!

    [[FUCK YOU SCROW (9): this scrow is over it, and the last thing it wants to do is play nice for another tourist, especially one that visits as frequently as the player character. they're angry, they're tired, and they're not accepting ignorance as an excuse.]]
        Oh, it's you.
        You sure come through here a lot, huh?
        Having a good time?
        You'd be the only one.
        If you like this place so much, maybe you ought to stay.
        What do you think? Would you live in a place like this?
        [[YES]]
            see rant above
        [[NO]]
            Yeah, I didn't fucking think so.
            Go on then, keep it moving.
            You've probably got a life to get back to, after all.

    [[SELF-INSERT SCROW (11): this scrow begins to talk, then gets taken over by my self-insert. music stops, text changes]]
        Well, well, look who it is. How have you been?
        Things have been kind of...kind of...ki...nngh...
        Hey.
        It's me, Jeff. The developer.
        The scarecrow's fine, don't worry about it.
        Just wanted to pop in and check up on you.
        I really appreciate you taking the time to play my game.
        It really does mean a lot.
        How are things going? Are you enjoying it so far?
        [[YES]]
            Great, that's great! I'm really glad to hear that.
            To be honest, by the end, I wasn't sure anyone was going to like this game.
            Thanks again for playing!
            Okay, I'll let you get back to it. Enjoy!
            ...whoa...uh, wow.
            That felt really bad. I didn't like that.
        [[NO]]
            Oh no! I'm really sorry to hear that.
            I hope you're willing to stick it out a little longer.
            If not, don't worry about ducking out early.
            I won't take it personally.
            Thanks for giving my game a shot, and I hope it gets better!
            ...whoa...uh, wow.
            That felt really bad. I didn't like that.

    [[ABANDONWARE SCROW (12): this scrow is timid, cowardly. it wants to flee the maze, but feels guilty for prioritizing its own survival over the plight facing the scrows. depending on how you answer, it will leave or stay. if it leaves, the scrow will burst into flames and fade out of existence]]
        Oh! Jeez, you startled me.
        Sorry, I'm a bit jumpy right now.
        I'm in a bit of a pickle.
        You see, I've...well, I've figured out how to escape this place.
        And every fiber of my being is telling me to just do it.
        To finally leave.
        What do you think? Should I just...go?
        [[YES]]
            Yeah, right.
            Okay then, here I go. I hope this works!
            See you out there.
        [[NO]]
            see rant above

    [[ULTIMATE SCROW (666): the last(?) scrow the player will talk to. they play coy, and speak indirectly and in a teasing way. This is meant to be a bit of a palate cleanser while setting the sky for the ending.]
        Oh my, hello there.
        You look like you've been on a bit of a journey.
        Not to worry, the exit is right nearby.
        Thank you for choosing to spend your time with us.
        Please come again soon!
        

[[BARKS]]
    "I think I'm still somewhere near the entrance..."
    "I'm near the eastern wall right now"
    "I think I'm close to the northern edge of the maze"
    "This is the western wall, I think"
    "Looks like I'm getting to close to the exit now"
    "I'm near the center of the maze at this point"
    (specific barks for each scarecrow, letting the player know they're in the room or nearby, and whether the dialogue has been exhausted or not)

[[STOCK VIDEO RESOURCES]]
    Pexels - https://www.pexels.com/videos
    Pixabay - https://pixabay.com/videos/
    You could probably also use images from Smithsonian Open Access with a bit of editing

[[VOICE ACTING]]
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FVmAEezr6ao
    creating different voices:
    Weight: light to strong
    Spatial Quality: direct to indirect
    Timing: sudden to sustained
    Placement: nasally to regular to throaty

    dabbing - light, direct, sudden
    flicking - light, indirect, sudden
    pressing - strong, direct, sustained
    thrusting - strong, direct, sudden
    wringing - strong, indirect, sustained
    slashing - strong, indirect, sudden
    gliding - light, direct, sustained
    floating - light, indirect, sustained