UNTITLED PROJECT 5/21/2021 DEV JOURNAL

5/25/2021
    Growing up, I didn't play Myst or The Manhole all that much, but I suspect they were quite formative for a variety of reasons. A few months ago, I got it in my head that I wanted to make a game like this, a semi-inhabited space in which you are transient. You will come and you will go, and the world will not be much changed for your being there. I eventually landed on the idea of a corn maze, populated with characters and other environmental props.

    I designed the maze so that there were no dead ends, just redundant loops. I originally wanted to have an underground section, but decided to scrap it for simplicity's sake. Once that was finished, I used a dirt texture and a low-poly plant model from opengameart and built the maze in Godot.

    At first, I wanted the player to move freely, but after some deliberation, I decided to use a node system to travel instead. This was partly to bring it more in line with Cyan's early point-and-click games, but also driven by the desire to have this game be accessible to the blind. It also helps if people want to try and make maps of where they've been.

    I can't remember how I landed on scarecrows to be the characters in the game, but I immediately latched on to it, realizing that I could express a lot of character very creatively with their design. That's what I spent yesterday doing and will likely do so again today.


5/26/2021
    It occurred to me last night that the game is a complete mess stylistically. The cornstalks are low-poly 3D models, the ground is a pixelated dirt texture, and I wanted to make the scarecrow characters billboarded 2D images that I hand-draw. This mismatch of aesthetics is not bad inherently, but is better left to those more capable than I. To rectify the situation, I decided to draw everything in 2D, which should work fine with the movement scheme I've dreamed up. It will also allow me to animate the cornstalks, something I wanted to do with the 3D models, but wasn't quite sure how to accomplish.

    All this to say that I spent the better part of the morning drawing various sizes of stone to make up the texture for the ground. While I was going at it, I reflected on how work was perceived at my old job. Sometimes, whether I did a good job or not, I would be chided for not doing it more efficiently. There was such a strong emphasis on automation and productivity that even doing a good job wasn't good enough sometimes. Spending the time and drawing each pebble out by hand was far more rewarding and reliable than trying to automate it.

5/31/2021
    Done a lot of good work - feels like this game is way older than ten days already. The movement system is in place, the directional pings have been implemented, a lot of the character art is done, and things are coming together!

    As quickly as a lot of this work has gone, there is still a lot of work left to do, and I'm not sure how a lot of it is going to work. There are issues with the look mechanic, sprites aren't showing up the way I'd like them to, and I somehow have to voice all of the characters.

    At the end of the day, though, I'm thinking this could actually be a commercial release, which is exciting to think about, especially for a game that is still quite young.

6/16/2021
    Been a little while. I took a step back shortly after this update - I had some good ideas about what Numeromancer 2 could look like, so I wanted to dig in a little on those.

    I've been back at the project more or less at 100% for the past week or so - I've decided to release this game commercially, hopefully on the one-year anniversary of my first published game (Numeromancer). This gives me...three months from tomorrow to finish.

    There's still a lot left to do, but the scoping is solid, and the work just needs to get done. Here's an exhaustive, if not high-level list of things that need to be done:

    - Scarecrow models need to be built, captured, and added to the game: I've decided to build the scarecrows using real materials. This will help me get the look I want without having to learn 3D modeling or relying on my art, which, while not bad, does not fit the game's aesthetic

    - The script needs to be written: I only just today thought of what kind of stories I want these scarecrows to tell. I want them to wistfully recount details of the world outside the corn maze that the player character has told them over the many times that they have been through the maze. As they speak, it'd be fun to play video behind them - primarily the incoherent milieu of what is being described

    - The dialogue system needs to be built and implemented: I have a very passable dialogue system that I can salvage from Bread, Milk, Eggs. I'm thinking about taking it a step further in this game by instancing each line rather than confining it to a text box. Hopefully this will give me the flexibility to add some kinetics to the dialogue, while also being able to confine it to a text box for accessibility or time constraints.

    - The world needs to be filled out: Right now, the world outside the maze is an endless void. Even if it means putting down a few more floor tiles, the world should be a little...more. I'm also thinking about thickening up the cornstalks a bit, or adding another ring around the outside. Oh! And I'd like the cornstalks to be animated.

    - Finish sound design: I need to add footstep sounds, voice lines, a softly blowing wind, and perhaps even sparse music. The voice lines need quite a bit of post-production work to sound distinct, especially if it'll only be one or two people doing the voices.

    - Add options sequence: The game's accessibility is important to me, and if that isn't done correctly, there's no point making the game. What I'd like to do at the start is provide the player with an options screen before beginning the game. This screen will take the form of an in-universe questionnaire. This will let the player turn a number of the features on or off, rebind their keys, as well as give them a quick rundown of the controls.

    - Begin and end the game: Right now, the game has no start or end sequence. I like a separate, simple title screen that fades in and out when moving between the two scenes. Easy.

    - Add achievements or unlockables: Talking to a scarecrow unlocks the design art, entries in this journal, so on and so forth. This requires extra work that is not primary to the game's objective, and should only be undertaken with an absolute abundance of time before release.

    Okay, I'll admit, this is a lot, especially considering that I also need to market this game from nothing and release it WHILE I'M OUT OF TOWN, GETTING READY TO GO ON A WEEKLONG CAMPING TRIP WITH MY DAD. Just release it later, Jeff, I'm sure it'll be fine, I can hear you say. Nope. Not gonna do it.

    First of all, because my audience is so small, I doubt very many people will play it in the first week anyway. Secondly, since the game itself is so small and contained, I find it unlikely that there will be any bugs so seriously game-breaking that they can't wait a week or two for me to get to. Third, if Annamarie is really willing to help me, she may be able to help act as a presence on social media while I'm away, though she'll have her own responsibilities.

    That whole paragraph reads as famous last words. Oh well, fingers crossed.

    I just remembered the other important task that needs doing: the game needs a name, and I am blanking SO hard. Hopefully something will come to me.

6/20/2021
    Back-to-back shareholder meetings with Annamarie and my parents the last couple days have been a little deflating. I can tell my insecurities are getting in the way of how I should be poised in those conversations. They don't really understand the industry or how my work fits into it, and while I'm not necessarily an expert, I know more than enough to be able to inform them and answer their questions from a place of confidence. Instead, I flounder for arguments that will legitimize my work in their eyes, and that's why I fail. I'm not quite sure how to circumvent this reaction - maybe therapy would help.

    Anyway, it's a new week working on the game, and I can tell I'm already coming up on a sticking point, where there is no low-hanging fruit to grab, and the work just needs to be done. I've come up with quite a few tasks to complete, which should help focus my efforts and push through that block.

    Something that I haven't thought much about that I know is going to take more time than I expect is reaching out to deaf and blind communities or consultants to get feedback on my game's accessibility. I want to have a fully-featured vertical slice of the game available, with at least an outline of all the options I plan on including.

    I'll be gone most of next week on the Four-Pass Loop, so it might be a good time to reach out to people. If I have a rough draft of the script done by then, it'll also serve as good time away from that as well.

    Last week, I struck an okay balance with work and other responsibilities, but only managed 18 hours of work. I talked to Annamarie about setting clearer boundaries, and she agreed that it was a good idea. Guess I'll finally check out the library this week.

    Still feeling good about the timeline. I'm almost positive I can get everything done before the proposed release date. Feeling good!

    Oh, and one more thing, just to write down before I forget: I should find a container or something I can use to collect materials while out on the Four Pass Loop. I'll bet there'll be some good scrow-building stuff out there.

6/23/2021
    I had a couple good days this week, but progress has again been slow as I work through some personal issues. I really want to be able to get a full week of work in, so I'll have to be extra diligent over the next few days, especially with the backpacking trip coming up.

    Although there was no reportable work that got done, I had a good amount of time to think, and I came to a couple important realizations. The first was settling a distribution method, which I'll adopt across all my games from here on out. All my games will be on itch, and will cost money. They will also be available, free to play, on my website on a rotating schedule. This way, if people want to own the game, they can buy it, but if they just want to play it, they can wait for it to be available on the website. I think this is a fair compromise, and means I'll never have to make a demo for a game, which is great.

    The second important thought was a bit of a pie-in-the-sky dream for the game. Adding a metanarrative layer over the game could be an impactful and interesting decision, really adding some meat to the bones that I'm working with right now. It would involve adding my voice as an increasingly antagonistic and desperate narrator, wresting control from the player periodically to make them experience the game 'the way I intended'. Though I'm quite fond of this idea, it would be difficult to execute within my timeline, and would have to be designed carefully to remain accessible. Additionally, as I sit here and think about this idea, I think portraying the desperation of an independent creator by antagonizing the player is not the best idea, as player-developer relationships can be strained in the first place. I'll have to think about this more.

    Of my eight objectives for this week, I've accomplished two. It's time to get to work.

7/2/2021
    I got a good amount of work done over the past couple weeks, but I still have quite a bit left with two and a half months to go before release. Honestly, my brain is a little scrambled today as I reckon with a brutal sunburn that my dumb ass picked up while Annamarie and I were hiking earlier this week. I'll be back in the swing of things next week, but will be traveling again by Thursday. Luckily, this time I'll be able to bring my work with me and hopefully chip away at it here and there.

    I think the big goal of next week will be to put together a scarecrow model and see how it looks in the game. I need to make sure this method is going to work, otherwise I'll have to come up with something else - and quickly. The other thing I want to test is voiceover. I think all I really need to do is record two or three lines, then play around with the audio to see if I can swing ten different characters out of it.

    Maybe I'll close the game loop today or tomorrow as well. All that really needs doing is moving from the settings state to the game state, then from the game state to the end state, along with a screen transition. I could half-ass this, but what I really want is for the settings screen to be interactable as well.

    Sorry this isn't more coherent - my scalp is leaking in multiple places and I needed to actually write out what I wanted to do to make it even a little coherent. Work time.

7/5/2021
    One of the biggest things that's been weighing on me recently is the game narrative script. I've got the mechanism down pretty well - it's just one-sided conversation with a simple yes/no at the end, leaving two different choices for each scrow, with one becoming a nearly cinematic rant. The problem has been trying to nail a tone for the game.

    Originally, I was just going to make the scrows talk about whatever was on their (read: my) mind, including everything from having dinner with friends and family to how responsible one should feel over doing favors for their friends. I liked how disparate things were, but I couldn't get any of the words I wrote to resonate, and I think the issue was that I wasn't a big fan of the ideas themselves.

    As a sort of natural progression from that idea, I thought perhaps that I wanted to "say something"; that is, have the scrows all say thigns along the same big idea, and intentionally drive home a thesis. This didn't last long at all, because I think that kind of thing is best left to people who take themselves too seriously. I shouldn't have to preach to my audience to expose them to new ideas.

    Finally, I think I've landed somewhere in the middle, or perhaps outside of the structural binary entirely. I've dug a little deeper into the space that the player finds themselves in, to give it a little more depth than 'foggy corn maze'. I didn't have to go that far, honestly: where I'm at now is more like 'foggy corn maze that has a clear class structure that puts scrows at a disadvantage'.

    So, by spending some time imagining that world, maybe twenty or thirty minutes, I was able to come up with plenty of things that would concern the scrows. Especially in the maze, they're uncomfortable, they're ornery, and even a little desperate. Additionally, the player is unusual in the sense that nobody can hear the scrows except for them. From this foundation, it becomes a lot easier to dream up motivations, frustrations, and personalities.

    To be fair, these ideas are not serendipitous inspirations from nowhere. They are absolutely related to the systemic oppression experienced by minority populations in the United States. If I'm going this route, I may have to send the script past a sensitivity reader, because the last thing I want is to trivialize or misrepresent a point of view by refocusing it through a lens of privilege. I can't fucking stand that shit.

    Anyway, kind of a long entry today, but I'm excited that I finally got to a point where I'm feeling a little more content with the "narrative" tone. It's not quite pointless, and it's not quite a thesis. It's just a space that has its own baggage for the player to sift through for an hour or two. I hope I pull it off okay.

7/18/2021
    It's been a slow couple of weeks. I was out of town for a little bit, and though I was able to get a little work done, I didn't accomplish as much as I had hoped.
    
    At the end of last week, I switched over to Discord as a project manager, replacing domino. Discord has the advantage of being accessible on my phone, and can scale with collaborators a little more easily than domino can. There are still a few oddities that I'm not a fan of, but until I have the time and motivation to build my own project manager framework, it'll do just fine.

    We're less than two months from release now, and I'm starting to get a little vertigo with the amount of work that still needs to be done. Thankfully, I think the script is getting pretty close, after which voice work can begin. I spent a good amount of time looking at settings implementation a couple days ago, and that's coming together nicely as well.

    I think the thing that will cause the biggest holdup is making the cinematics for the rants. I have a lot of great ideas, but there's so much to balance when trying to nail down the tone. I have to make sure the writing, the voice acting, and everything in the cinematic matches the tone I'm trying to portray. It's a lot of pressure, and I'm afraid that I'm going to hate it by the end. Well, whatever. As long as it isn't objectively terrible, I guess I'll be fine with it.

    Games never turn out the way you want them to, I suppose. I'm gonna build some of the scrows this week. Hopefully seeing them in Godot will get my fire going.

8/3/2021
    Progress has still been slow. I got all the settings hooked up, including the keybindings, and I 'finished' the script, so that is good, but there's still a ton to do. I'm feeling a little fatigue, I think. The scarecrow game is interesting, for sure, but I think I want to work on something that's more "game". Maybe not, I dunno. I think I'm also just in the rut of doing not-exciting stuff. I bet building the scrows will be fun as hell.

    Anyhow, again, not much to say. Just haven't updated in a while and wanted to put something on the page. Oh! No, there was one other thing I wanted to mention. I've been looking into voice modulation software, and haven't found anything satisfying. I think Audacity will be the way to go, as crude a method as that is. We'll see. Between changing my actual voice and changing it in Audacity, I think I can get 10 different voices out of it. Fingers crossed.

    I did also come across some great accessibility guides to get some pointers, so I'm looking forward to leafing through those for some insight.

8/12/2021
    I got some good work done last week, but still had to reckon with being away for most of the week. The fatigue is really starting to set in now, and this morning marked the first time that I had any serious thoughts about not finishing the game, or putting it on hold. Part of it is the roadblock of having to do something I'm not good at (building and voicing scarecrow characters), and another part is the creeping anticipation of other creative pursuits. It'll already be quite a challenge to get everything ready by the projected release date, I tell myself, so what's the point of sticking to it? I have no accountability or responsibility to anything or anyone, so why not just put it down for a while?

    The counterpoint here is that I really am so close to finishing the game. All I really have to do is put the scarecrows in the game, voice them, program rant animations, and polish all the UI stuff. It sounds like a lot, but it really isn't. Another month of hard work and it'll be done, I'm sure. But that's also a month of work that I could put off until later. Who cares if it isn't released on time?

    Times like these make me think about what I've learned from other developers that I look up to. I think about Miz' philosophy of finishing games to get better at finishing games, and Chloe's philosophy of finishing a project to 99% completion, then putting it away for years. Maybe I put the scrow game away for a little while, and a year or two down the road I'm actually able to work with artists and voice actors and stuff. That would be great.

    I guess I'm leaning towards shelving the project for now. I just got all the materials to build the scarecrows, so maybe I'll work on that here and there, but I'm not going to pressure myself to finish up in time for the release date. And who knows, maybe working on other projects will give me the kick I need to finish this one.